

DMOR: I was in Beijing for Chinese New Year for a couple weeks in 2009, and 
when I flew in, I couldn't see the enormous city at all from the sky. It was 
completely hidden in a cloud of smog. There was some of the worst air quality of the year 
at that time from all the fireworks plus being the coldest time of year (so 
everyone is burning coal fires), and a ton of debris in the air from a 44 floor 
skyscraper that burned to the ground down the street (video: 
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6hSPFL2Zlpg) I never really knew what coal burning smelled like before. Even in the city it 
isn't allowed, but once we left and went to a smaller town outside Beijing that's 
when I really got it. It is the heat source for 99% of the population, plus it 
powers most of the factories. There were days where we were told we shouldn't be 
outside unless absolutely necessary (which was, since my husband had to commute to his 
job at Microsoft). At night if you blew your nose your tissue would be grey. If you 
took a shower, the water would run grey from dust wherever your skin had been 
exposed. Your clothes would be dusted in a thin layer of gray that never really went 
away. We tried to combat this by changing out of our clothes just inside the front 
door and putting them straight into the wash, but it never really went away. 

JACQUESM: This has two parts, one part is the externalization of pollution by 
the rich countries to developing countries, the second is the speed with which 
China is increasing its energy consumption due to an increase in local consumption. 
Their fuel of choice (coal) doesn't help and in many ways what is happening there is 
comparable to what the industrial revolution did to England not all that long ago. In 1952 
(long after the start of the industrial revolution but before the end of major 
emissions in the UK) this culminated in the 'great smog': 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Smog Which in turn led to the clean air act. 

SOLOX3: &#62; what phrase is appropriate to describe Saturday&euro;&trade;s 
jaw-dropping reading of 755 at 8 p.m., when all of Beijing looked like an airport 
smokers&euro;&trade; lounge? I was there. The truth is, it doesn't just _look_ like an smokers' 
lounge. 

NEWBIE12: This is good news, in a way. China's pollution is being carried 
around the world every day-- now that local weather conditions are forcing Beijing to 
bear the full brunt of their poison, hopefully the Chinese government will take 
action. 

TELLARIN: I live here, and I have to say this, the air even tastes awful! It's 
weirdly interesting to look outside and to see the streets almost empty and the 
darkened sky at noon. It was worse from Friday to Saturday, but is still pretty bad. 
People were warned to stay inside and some schools won't function tomorrow. According 
to the weather forecast it will only get better around Wednesday; when it will get 
a bit windy. 

FNORDFNORDFNORD: I lived there in '08 and '09. You cannot believe it until you 
have seen it. The difference during the Olympics was stark. For example, my 
apartment in Shijingshan had a view of a mountain (~5 mi) and a comm tower (~1 mi). I 
lived in that apartment for a month before I ever saw either of them. The 'Jing 
rarely gets full sunlight, rather there is this kind of yellowish lambertian light 
source in the white-ish gray sky. People who espouse environmental deregulation should 
go check it out. 

BATGAIJIN: Why isn't china switching to natural gas faster? They have 886 
trillion cubic feet and the USA only has 750 trillion of it. 
http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/138597/aviezer-tucker... 

PSYKOTIC: Apropos: 
http://www.theonion.com/video/china-celebrates-its-status-as... 

BTIPLING: &#62; Wang Shu&euro;&trade;ai, told American diplomats to halt the 
Twitter feed, saying that the data &euro;&oelig;is not only confusing but also 
insulting,&euro;? Insulted by just reporting the data. Maybe shamed is the better word. 

SAKOPOV: A good friend of mine was there last year. He said he was constantly 
bleeding out of his nose during the entire stay because of the foreign particles in the 
air. Insane. 

MACTITAN: The problem is daunting but I would say fracking might be the lesser 
of evils.(I'm curious about these huge emmisions &#38; the these past 2 
U.S.winters warm spell) China planning 'huge fracking industry'Chinese plans to expand 
fracking for shale gas prompt fears over local water and international climate impacts 
http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2012/nov/27/china-plan... 

WEISSGUY: Keep in mind that a couple weeks from now, the Western outcry about 
this news will die down, but their air will still suck! When I was in Beijing, I 
felt so terrible for the infants I saw on the streets. My lungs felt worse than ever 
for the 3 days I was there, but they will likely breathe that air for their entire 
lives! When are Chinese people going to realize that they can't live in a giant cloud 
of smog? 

BRADOR: Is it all just from vehicles? Quick fix would be subsidised electric 
vehicles. 